[Docs] Add TGATE in section `optimization` (#7639)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/optimization/tgate.md

# TGATE

[TGATE](https://github.com/HaozheLiu-ST/T-GATE/tree/main) accelerates inferences of [`PixArtAlphaPipeline`], [`StableDiffusionPipeline`], and [`StableDiffusionXLPipeline`] by skipping the calculation of cross-attention once it converges. More details can be found at [technical report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.02747).

![](https://github.com/HaozheLiu-ST/T-GATE/assets/53887227/bff43e0e-2372-4edc-9ba1-64dcbc649329)

## 🚀 Major Features 

* Training-Free.
* Easily Integrate into [Diffusers](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main).
* Only a few lines of code are required.
* Complementary to [DeepCache](https://github.com/horseee/DeepCache).
* Friendly support [Stable Diffusion pipelines](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai), [PixArt](https://pixart-alpha.github.io/), and [Latent Consistency Models](https://latent-consistency-models.github.io/).
* 10%-50% speed up for different models. 

## 📖 Quick Start

### 🛠️ Installation

Start by installing [TGATE](https://github.com/HaozheLiu-ST/T-GATE/tree/release-v.0.1.0):

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> pip install tgate
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip install tgate
pip install -U pytorch diffusers transformers accelerate DeepCache
```

#### Requirements

* pytorch>=2.0.0
* diffusers>=0.27.2
* transformers==4.37.2
* DeepCache==0.1.1
* accelerate

> ### 🌟 Usage
> 
> Accelerate `PixArtAlphaPipeline` with TGATE:

Reviewer: Feel free to update table with any additional `TgateLoader`'s. Also if you can fill in the parentheses with a brief explanation of what the gate step does that'd be great!

```suggestion
To use T-GATE with a pipeline, you need to use its corresponding loader.

| Pipeline | T-GATE Loader |
|---|---|
| PixArt | TgatePixArtLoader |
| Stable Diffusion XL | TgateSDXLLoader |
| Stable Diffusion XL + DeepCache | TgateSDXLDeepCacheLoader |

Next, create a `TgateLoader` with a pipeline, the gate step(`add brief description here`), and the number of inference steps. Then call the `tgate` method on the pipeline with a prompt, gate step, and the number of inference steps.

Let's see how to enable this for several different pipelines.
```

> ```diff
> import torch
> from diffusers import PixArtAlphaPipeline
> 
> pipe = PixArtAlphaPipeline.from_pretrained("PixArt-alpha/PixArt-XL-2-1024-MS", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
> 
> + from tgate import TgatePixArtLoader
> + gate_step = 8
> + inference_step = 25
> + pipe = TgatePixArtLoader(
> +        pipe,
> +        gate_step=gate_step,
> +        num_inference_steps=inference_step,
> + )
> pipe = pipe.to("cuda")
> 
> + image = pipe.tgate(
> +         "An alpaca made of colorful building blocks, cyberpunk.",
> +         gate_step=gate_step,
> +         num_inference_steps=inference_step,
> + ).images[0]
> ```

Reviewer: 1. It'd be easier for users to copy/paste code snippet without `diff`  
2. We can also wrap all these pipeline examples with our doc-builders special syntax so users can easily switch between the different code samples without scrolling.

```md
<hfoptions id="pipelines">
<hfoption id="PixArt">

code here

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="Stable Diffusion XL">

code here

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="StableDiffusionXL with DeepCache">

code here

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="Latent Consistency Model">

code here

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>
```

```suggestion
```py
import torch
from diffusers import PixArtAlphaPipeline
from tgate import TgatePixArtLoader

pipe = PixArtAlphaPipeline.from_pretrained("PixArt-alpha/PixArt-XL-2-1024-MS", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe = TgatePixArtLoader(
       pipe,
       gate_step=8,
       num_inference_steps=25,
)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

image = pipe.tgate(
       "An alpaca made of colorful building blocks, cyberpunk.",
        gate_step=gate_step,
       num_inference_steps=inference_step,
).images[0]
```
```

+         gate_step=gate_step,
+         num_inference_steps=inference_step
+ ).images[0]
```

Accelerate `latent-consistency/lcm-sdxl` with TGATE:

```diff
import torch
from diffusers import StableDiffusionXLPipeline
from diffusers import UNet2DConditionModel, LCMScheduler
from diffusers import DPMSolverMultistepScheduler

unet = UNet2DConditionModel.from_pretrained(
    "latent-consistency/lcm-sdxl",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    variant="fp16",
)
pipe = StableDiffusionXLPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0",
    unet=unet,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    variant="fp16",
)
pipe.scheduler = LCMScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)

+ from tgate import TgateSDXLLoader
+ gate_step = 1
+ inference_step = 4
+ pipe = TgateSDXLLoader(
+        pipe,
+        gate_step=gate_step,
+        num_inference_steps=inference_step,
+        lcm=True
+ )
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

+ image = pipe.tgate(
+         "Astronaut in a jungle, cold color palette, muted colors, detailed, 8k.",
+         gate_step=gate_step,
+         num_inference_steps=inference_step
+ ).images[0]
```

> TGATE also supports `StableDiffusionPipeline` and `PixArt-alpha/PixArt-LCM-XL-2-1024-MS`.
> More details can be found at [here](https://github.com/HaozheLiu-ST/T-GATE/tree/release-v.0.1.0/main.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
T-GATE also supports [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] and [PixArt-alpha/PixArt-LCM-XL-2-1024-MS](https://hf.co/PixArt-alpha/PixArt-LCM-XL-2-1024-MS).
```

> ## 📄 Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Benchmarks
```

| SD-1.5 w/ TGATE       | 9.875T   | 815.557M  | 4.313s  | 20.789                    |
| SD-2.1                | 38.041T  | 865.785M  | 16.121s | 22.609                    |
| SD-2.1 w/ TGATE       | 22.208T  | 815.433 M | 9.878s  | 19.940                    |
| SD-XL                 | 149.438T | 2.570B    | 53.187s | 24.628                    |
| SD-XL w/ TGATE        | 84.438T  | 2.024B    | 27.932s | 22.738                    |
| Pixart-Alpha          | 107.031T | 611.350M  | 61.502s | 38.669                    |
| Pixart-Alpha w/ TGATE | 65.318T  | 462.585M  | 37.867s | 35.825                    |
| DeepCache (SD-XL)     | 57.888T  | -         | 19.931s | 23.755                    |
| DeepCache w/ TGATE    | 43.868T  | -         | 14.666s | 23.999                    |
| LCM (SD-XL)           | 11.955T  | 2.570B    | 3.805s  | 25.044                    |
| LCM w/ TGATE          | 11.171T  | 2.024B    | 3.533s  | 25.028                    |
| LCM (Pixart-Alpha)    | 8.563T   | 611.350M  | 4.733s  | 36.086                    |
| LCM w/ TGATE          | 7.623T   | 462.585M  | 4.543s  | 37.048                    |

> The latency is tested on a 1080ti commercial card. 
> 
> The MACs and Params are calculated by [calflops](https://github.com/MrYxJ/calculate-flops.pytorch). 
> 
> The FID is calculated by [PytorchFID](https://github.com/mseitzer/pytorch-fid).

Reviewer: Move this right after the "Benchmarks"

```suggestion
The latency is tested on an NVIDIA 1080TI, MACs and Params are calculated with [calflops](https://github.com/MrYxJ/calculate-flops.pytorch), and the FID is calculated with [PytorchFID](https://github.com/mseitzer/pytorch-fid).
```
